# Configuration

As mentioned in the [Quick Start](/docs/quickstart) section, you can publish the configuration file of Laravext by running the following command:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=laravext-config
```

This will create a `laravext.php` file in your `config` directory, where you can customize the configuration of Laravext. Here are the ways you can customize it:

## Root view (root_view) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

The root view is the view that will be used to render the components. By default, it's set to `env('LARAVEXT_ROOT_VIEW', 'sections.app')`. You can change it to any view you want, as long as it's a valid view in your application.

## Nexus directory (nexus_directory) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

The nexus directory is the directory where your the Laravext router will use to automagically create the routes. By default, it's set to `env("LARAVEXT_NEXUS_DIRECTORY", resource_path('js/nexus'))`. You can change it to any directory you want, as long as it's a valid directory in your application.

## Router is case sensitive (router_is_case_sensitive) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default, the router is case insensitive (`env('LARAVEXT_ROUTER_IS_CASE_SENSITIVE', false)`). This means that the router will automatically convert the route name to lowercase. If you want to make the router case sensitive, you can set this to `true`.

## Route cache driver (route_cache_driver) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default the route cache driver is set to `env('LARAVEXT_ROUTER_CACHE_DRIVER', env('CACHE_DRIVER', 'file'))`. This is used to cache the directory structure, and also data about the URIs (conventions, root views, etc) so you [don't have to repeat yourself](/docs/tools/nexus-response#no-need-to-repeat-yourself). You can change it to any cache driver you want, as long as IT'S NOT `array`, as the conventions will be lost if you cache the routes using the `php artisan optimize` or the `php artisan route:cache`.

## Route cacher is enabled (route_cacher_is_enabled) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default this is set to `env('LARAVEXT_ROUTER_CACHE_IS_ENABLED', !in_array(env('APP_ENV'), ['local', 'testing']))`, so that the route cacher is enabled in production and disabled in local and testing environments. You can change this to `true` or `false` if you want to enable or disable the route cacher, although it's recommended to keep it enabled in production for performance reasons.

## Router route naming is enabled (router_route_naming_is_enabled) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default this is set to `env('LARAVEXT_ROUTER_ROUTE_NAMING_IS_ENABLED', true)`. This is used to automatically name the routes generated by the Laravext router. You can change this to `true` or `false` if you want to enable or disable the route naming. The route name is based on the `path/to/the/component/{that}/the/route/points/to` format, where the route name will be `path.to.the.component.that.the.route.points.to`.

## Router url intended is enabled (router_url_intended_is_enabled) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default this is set to `env('LARAVEXT_ROUTER_URL_INTENDED_IS_ENABLED', true)`. This is used to set wether or not the `url.intended` value from the session will be pulled from the session and included in the laravext prop. This can be used by the [visit function](/docs/tools/visit) in the client to redirect the user to the intended url after a successful login. You can change this to `true` or `false` if you want to enable or disable the url intended. Additionally, the `visit` function will also accept a `options.redirectToUrlIntended` to define wether or not the user should be redirected to the intended url after a successful login (by default, this is set to `true`).

## Strand id length (strand_id_length) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default this is set to `64`. This is used to generate the a random id for each strand section that is rendered in the blade view, this is used internally for hydration purposes. You can change this to any number you want, as long as it's a valid number, just make sure it's long enough to avoid collisions.

## File extensions (file_extensions) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default this is set to `['jsx', 'tsx', 'js', 'ts', 'vue']`. This is used to determine the file extensions that the Laravext router will look for when generating the routes and searching for [file conventions](/docs/concepts/file-conventions). In case you want to add more file extensions, you can add them to this array. You can remove this config altogether, as the default ones are also internally set in case somebody removes it from the configuration file.

## Version (version) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default this is set to `in_array(env('APP_ENV'), ['local']) ? 'fixed-local-version' : env('LARAVEXT_VERSION')`. Assuming that you didn't define a version, Laravext tries to generate a version based on either the `config('app.asset_url')`, a `mix-manifest.json` file, or a `build/manifest.json` file. If you want to set a custom version, you can set it here. 

This is used in the cache key for the routing tree. If the version changes, the user's browser is refreshed to get the new version of the application. You probably don't need to change this, but it's here in case you want to. If you're in a local environment, considering that the cache is disabled by default, this won't be used at all, and it's meant for non-local environments.

## Force Page Visit (force_page_visit) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default Laravext behaves an SPA, when possible, so for each link there is no page reload, unless the route is set to use a different view file than the one that was previously loaded, or if the version changed (see the `version` config above). If you want to force a page visit on each link click, you can set this to `true`.

## SSR (ssr) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

This is an array containing some configurations in case you want to use a javascript runtime to server side render your javascript. This configuration has some comments to briefly explain everything, but for more details, check the [Server Side Rendering/Javascript Runtime](/docs/server-side-rendering#javascript-runtime) section of this documentation.

Here's the default configuration:

```php
/**
 * This config is used to determine if the server should render the javascript or not.
 */
'ssr' => [
    /**
     * If set to true, the server will attempt to server side 
     * render your javascript, and if set to false, it won't.
     */
    'enabled' => env('LARAVEXT_JAVASCRIPT_SERVER_SIDE_RENDERING_ENABLED', false),

    /**
     * You can also set it as 'only' or 'except' to specify the URIs that should(n't) be SSR'd, 
     * if for some reason you need this kind of control.
     */
    // 'enabled' => 'only',
    // 'enabled' => 'except',

    /**
     * The URIs that should/should not be SSR'd. This validation is dependent on the enabled config.
     *
     * If enabled is set to 'only', the URIs listed here will be the only ones that will be SSR'd.
     * If enabled is set to 'except', the URIs listed here will be the ones that won't be SSR'd.
     *
     * If enabled is set to true, this config will be ignored.
     *
     * Internally this is checked using the request()->is(config('laravext.ssr.uris', []))
     */
    'uris' => [
        // 'example/{uri}/pattern/*',
        // 'another-example/{uri}'
    ],

    /**
     * The route names that should/should not be SSR'd. This validation is dependent on the enabled config.
     *
     * If enabled is set to 'only', the route names listed here will be the only ones that will be SSR'd.
     * If enabled is set to 'except', the route names listed here will be the ones that won't be SSR'd.
     *
     * If enabled is set to true, this config will be ignored.
     *
     * Internally this is checked using the request()->routeIs(config('laravext.ssr.route_names', []))
     */
    'route_names' => [
        // 'route.name',
        // 'route.name_pattern.*'
    ],

    /**
     * The URL where the server side rendering will be done.
     */
    'url' => env('LARAVEXT_JAVASCRIPT_SERVER_SIDE_RENDERING_URL', 'http://localhost:13714/render'),

    // You may want to change this, if needed.
    // 'bundle' => env('LARAVEXT_JAVASCRIPT_SERVER_SIDE_RENDERING_BUNDLE', 'app.js'),
],
```
