# Configuration

As mentioned in the [Quick Start](/quickstart.md) section, you can publish the configuration file of Laravext by running the following command:

```bash
php artisan vendor:publish --tag=laravext-config
```

This will create a `laravext.php` file in your `config` directory, where you can customize the configuration of Laravext. Here are the ways you can customize it:

## Root view (root_view) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

The root view is the view that will be used to render the components. By default, it's set to `env('VEXT_ROOT_VIEW', 'sections.app')`. You can change it to any view you want, as long as it's a valid view in your application.

## Nexus directory (nexus_directory) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

The nexus directory is the directory where your the Laravext router will use to automagically create the routes. By default, it's set to `env("VEXT_NEXUS_DIRECTORY", resource_path('js/nexus'))`. You can change it to any directory you want, as long as it's a valid directory in your application.

## Router is case sensitive (router_is_case_sensitive) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default, the router is case insensitive (`env('VEXT_ROUTER_IS_CASE_SENSITIVE', false)`). This means that the router will automatically convert the route name to lowercase. If you want to make the router case sensitive, you can set this to `true`.

## Route cache driver (route_cache_driver) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default the route cache driver is set to `env('VEXT_ROUTER_CACHE_DRIVER', env('CACHE_DRIVER', 'file'))`. This is used to cache the routes generated by the Laravext router. You can change it to any cache driver you want, as long as it's a valid cache driver in your application.

## Route cacher is enabled (route_cacher_is_enabled) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default this is set to `env('VEXT_ROUTER_CACHER_IS_ENABLED', !in_array(env('APP_ENV'), ['local', 'testing']))`, so that the route cacher is enabled in production and disabled in local and testing environments. You can change this to `true` or `false` if you want to enable or disable the route cacher, although it's recommended to keep it enabled in production for performance reasons.

## Router route naming is enabled (router_route_naming_is_enabled) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default this is set to `env('VEXT_ROUTER_ROUTE_NAMING_IS_ENABLED', true)`. This is used to automatically name the routes generated by the Laravext router. You can change this to `true` or `false` if you want to enable or disable the route naming. The route name is based on the `path/to/the/component/{that}/the/route/points/to` format, where the route name will be `path.to.the.component.that.the.route.points.to`.

## Strand id length (strand_id_length) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default this is set to `64`. This is used to generate the a random id for each strand section that is rendered in the blade view. Honestly, I did this out of paranoia, because it's not used for anything whatsoever at the moment. You can change this to any number you want, as long as it's a valid integer.

## File extensions (file_extensions) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default this is set to `['jsx', 'tsx', 'js', 'ts', 'vue']`. This is used to determine the file extensions that the Laravext router will look for when generating the routes and searching for [file conventions](/concepts/file-conventions). In case you want to add more file extensions, you can add them to this array. You can remove this config altogether, as the default ones are also internally set in case somebody removes it from the configuration file.

## Version (version) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default Laravext generates a version based on either the `config('app.asset_url')`, a `mix-manifest.json` file, or a `build/manifest.json` file. If you want to set a custom version, you can set it here. This is used in the cache key for the routing tree. If the version changes, the user's browser is refreshed to get the new version of the application. You probably don't need to change this, but it's here in case you want to. This config is commented in the published config file.

## Force Page Visit (force_page_visit) <!-- {docsify-ignore} -->

By default Laravext behaves an SPA, when possible, so for each link there is no page reload, unless the route is set to use a different view file than the one that was previously loaded, or if the version changed (see the `version` config). If you want to force a page visit on each link click, you can set this to `true`. This will only take effect if you're using the `visit` helper function in the client side.